EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
Issued by authority of the Minister for Communications
Classification (Publications, Films and Computer Games) Act 1995
Guidelines for the Classification of Computer Games 2023
Authority
The Classification (Publications, Films and Computer Games) Act 1995 (Classification Act)
forms part of cooperative arrangements between the Commonwealth, states and territories
under the National Classification Scheme.
The Guidelines for the Classification of Computer Games 2023 (Games Guidelines) are made
under section 12 of the Classification Act, which provides that the Minister may, with the
agreement of each participating state and territory Minister, determine guidelines to assist the
Classification Board in applying the criteria in the National Classification Code. If the
Minister and each participating Minister agree to an amendment of the guidelines, the
guidelines are taken to be amended accordingly.
On 22 September 2023 the Games Guidelines were unanimously agreed to by participating
Ministers.
Purpose and operation
The Games Guidelines are used, in conjunction with the National Classification Code, to
classify computer games. They help to explain the different classification categories for
computer games distributed in Australia and the scope and limits of material suitable for each
category.
Updates to the Games Guidelines will address growing community concern about children
accessing gambling-like content in computer games, especially games containing simulated
gambling and paid loot boxes, and the potential harms associated with these products.
Currently such games receive consumer advice labelling including ‘in-game purchases’ and
‘simulated gambling’, but there is no mandated classification for gambling-like content.
The introduction of mandatory classifications for gambling-like content in computer games
was proposed by the 2020 Review of Australian classification regulation (the Stevens
Review). The Stevens Review recommended a minimum classification rating of MA15+
(Mature Accompanied – legally restricted to persons under the age of 15 unless they are in
the company of a parent or guardian) for games exclusively containing simulated gambling
and PG (Parental Guidance – not recommended for persons under the age of 15 without
guidance from a parent or guardian) for games containing paid loot boxes.
However, since this time stronger evidence has emerged around the potential harms
associated with gambling-like content in computer games, which has resulted in higher
recommended mandatory minimum classifications for games containing these products.
A 2022 review conducted by the Australian Institute of Family Studies on Harms associated
with loot boxes, simulated gambling and other in-game purchases in video games: a review
of the evidence found associations between paid loot boxes, in-game purchases and simulated
gambling mechanics, and problem gambling. It also found evidence of links to other harms
including internet gaming disorder, financial harms, emotional and behavioural problems.

Authorised Version Explanatory Statement registered 27/10/2023 to F2023L01424

Further research from the Australian Institute of Family Studies on What is the link between
video gaming and gambling? in 2022, using data from the Longitudinal Study of Australian
Children, found a causal link between young people who played simulated gambling games
and the uptake of real world gambling as young adults.
The Games Guidelines will introduce mandatory minimum classification ratings of:
(a) M (Mature – not recommended for persons under 15 years of age) for computer
games which contain loot boxes and other in-game purchases linked to elements of
chance, and
(b) R 18+ (Restricted – legally restricted to adults 18 years and older) for computer
games that contain simulated gambling.
The Games Guidelines have no financial implications.
Details of key updates in the Games Guidelines are set out in Attachment A.
Consultation
As part of the Stevens Review, a full public submission process occurred between
8 January 2020 and 19 February 2020. During this six-week period, 104 submissions were
received and the Government also undertook targeted consultations with state and territory
governments, industry and community groups.
A further public consultation process on the proposed Games Guidelines was undertaken
from May to June 2023, following targeted consultations with state and territory governments
and key stakeholders, including representative bodies for the computer games industry.
During the most recent public consultation process, 22 submissions were received from a
range of industry, community and advocacy groups, as well as the Federal Member for
Denison.
Impact analysis
The Office of Impact Analysis assessed the proposed introduction of mandatory minimum
classifications for gambling-like content in computer games as having no more than minor
regulatory impacts (OBPR22-03305).
Commencement and sunsetting arrangements
The Games Guidelines will commence on 22 September 2024. The delayed commencement
date will provide time for industry to adjust to the new classification requirements.
The Games Guidelines are a legislative instrument for the purposes of the Legislation Act
2003 (Legislation Act). In accordance with subsections 44(1) and 54(1) of the Legislation
Act, they are not subject to disallowance or sunsetting because the Classification Act
facilitates the establishment or operation of an intergovernmental scheme involving the
Commonwealth and one or more of the states, and authorises the instrument to be made by
the Minister for the purpose of the scheme.
Statement of compatibility with human rights
As section 42 of the Legislation Act does not apply to this instrument, being exempted under
subsection 44(1) of the Legislation Act, a statement of compatibility with human rights is not
required under section 9 of the Human Rights (Parliamentary Scrutiny) Act 2011.

Authorised Version Explanatory Statement registered 27/10/2023 to F2023L01424

Attachment A

Details of the Guidelines for the Classification of Computer Games 2023 and changes to
the guidelines
Section 1 – Name
This section provides that the name of the instrument is the Guidelines for the Classification
of Computer Games 2023 (Games Guidelines).
Section 2 – Commencement
This section provides that the entirety of the instrument commences on 22 September 2024.
Section 3 – Authority
This section states that the instrument is made under subsection 12(1) of the Classification
(Publications, Films and Computer Games) Act 1995 (the Act).
Section 4 – Definitions
This section includes definitions used in the instrument and includes a note directing readers
to some of the expressions used that are defined in the Act.
Section 5 – Determination of guidelines
This section determines that the guidelines specified in Schedule 1 to the instrument are
determined under subsection 12(1) of the Act to assist the Board in applying the criteria in the
Code when classifying computer games.
The newly determined Games Guidelines specified in Schedule 1 reproduce the Guidelines
for the Classification of Computer Games 2012 and include mandatory minimum
classification ratings of:
(a) M (Mature – not recommended for persons under 15 years of age) for computer
games which contain loot boxes and other in-game purchases linked to elements of
chance, and
(b) R 18+ (Restricted – legally restricted to adults 18 years and older) for computer
games that contain simulated gambling.
Specific details of how these mandatory minimum classification ratings are given effect in
the Games Guidelines are identified below.
The participating Ministers agreed to the Games Guidelines on 22 September 2023 through
the Standing Council of Attorneys-General.
The Games Guidelines will apply to classification decisions on and from 22 September 2024.
Section 6 – Repeals
This section repeals the Guidelines for the Classification of Computer Games 2012, which
will occur on 22 September 2024.

Authorised Version Explanatory Statement registered 27/10/2023 to F2023L01424

Schedule 1 – Guidelines
The Games Guidelines are specified in Schedule 1 to the instrument and, as described above
in the note to section 5, reproduce the Guidelines for the Classification of Computer Games
2012 with the inclusion of mandatory minimum classification ratings to address gamblinglike content.
To give effect to the mandatory minimum classification ratings, the Games Guidelines
include the following changes to the Guidelines for the Classification of Computer Games
2012.
G (General) category
Under the heading ‘Themes’, a second line is inserted to clarify that in-game purchases
linked to elements of chance and simulated gambling are not permitted.
PG (Parental Guidance) category
Under the heading ‘Themes’, a second line is inserted to clarify that in-game purchases
linked to elements of chance and simulated gambling are not permitted.
M (Mature) category
Under the heading ‘Themes’, two additional lines are inserted to clarify that in-game
purchases linked to elements of chance are permitted and that simulated gambling is not
permitted.
MA 15+ (Mature Accompanied) category
Under the heading ‘Themes’, two additional lines are inserted to clarify that in-game
purchases linked to elements of chance are permitted and that simulated gambling is not
permitted.
R 18+ (Restricted) category
Under the heading ‘Themes’, a second line is inserted to clarify that in-game purchases
linked to elements of chance and simulated gambling are permitted.
List of Terms
Under the list of terms, new definitions are included for the terms ‘In-game purchases linked
to elements of chance’, ‘Paid Loot Box’, ‘Real World Currency’ and ‘Simulated Gambling’.

Authorised Version Explanatory Statement registered 27/10/2023 to F2023L01424

